<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by LibreOffice - see http://cgit.freedesktop.org/libreoffice/core/tree/filter/source/xslt for the code.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">- no title specified</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2017-10-04T20:14:18.383000000" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2017-10-26T14:16:10.824000000" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P10 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; }
	.P11 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; }
	.P12 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; }
	.P13 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; }
	.P14 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; }
	.P15 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P16 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P17 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; font-style:italic; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.P18 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; font-style:italic; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.P19 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; font-style:italic; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:bold; }
	.P20 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.P21 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.P22 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P23 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P24 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P25 { font-size:10pt; margin-left:0.2354in; margin-right:0in; text-indent:-0.2354in; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P26 { font-size:10pt; margin-left:0.2354in; margin-right:0in; text-indent:-0.2354in; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P27 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P28 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; }
	.P3 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P4 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; text-align:left ! important; }
	.P5 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; }
	.P6 { font-size:15pt; font-family:Liberation Serif; writing-mode:page; text-align:center ! important; color:#ff0000; font-weight:bold; }
	.P7 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; }
	.P8 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.P9 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Courier New; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.Internet_20_link { color:#000080; text-decoration:underline; }
	.T1 { font-weight:bold; }
	.T10 { font-style:normal; font-weight:bold; }
	.T11 { font-style:normal; font-weight:bold; }
	.T12 { font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; }
	.T13 { font-family:Courier New; }
	.T14 { font-family:Courier New; font-size:12pt; }
	.T15 { font-family:Courier New; }
	.T16 { font-family:Courier New; text-decoration:underline; }
	.T17 { font-family:Courier New; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.T18 { font-family:Courier New; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.T19 { font-family:Courier New; text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.T2 { font-style:italic; }
	.T20 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T21 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T22 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T23 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T24 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T25 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T26 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T27 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T28 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; }
	.T29 { font-family:Courier New; font-style:normal; text-decoration:underline; }
	.T30 { text-decoration:underline; }
	.T31 { text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.T32 { text-decoration:none ! important; }
	.T33 { text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:bold; }
	.T35 { font-family:Liberation Serif; font-style:normal; }
	.T36 { font-family:Liberation Serif; font-style:normal; }
	.T37 { font-family:Liberation Serif; font-style:normal; text-decoration:underline; }
	.T38 { font-family:Liberation Serif; font-style:normal; font-weight:bold; }
	.T4 { font-style:normal; }
	.T40 { font-family:Liberation Serif; font-weight:bold; }
	.T41 { font-family:Liberation Serif; font-weight:normal; }
	.T42 { font-family:Courier New; font-size:12pt; font-weight:normal; }
	.T5 { font-style:normal; }
	.T6 { font-style:normal; }
	.T7 { font-style:normal; }
	.T8 { font-style:normal; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	.Footnote_20_Symbol .T3 .T34  { }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin-top:0.7874in; margin-bottom:0.7874in; margin-left:0.7874in; margin-right:0.7874in; border-top-width:0.0133cm; border-top-style:solid; border-top-color:#000000; border-bottom-width:0.0133cm; border-bottom-style:solid; border-bottom-color:#000000; border-left-style:none; border-right-style:none; padding:0.0201in; "><p class="P6">Before you start anything, read the “readme” in the image. This will dictate what you need to do and what you do not need to do. There are also forensics questions you need to read before you make any changes. 9 times out of 10 the forensics questions are also a scored problem for you to fix. Once you know what you need to do and not to do, continue.</p><p class="P4"><br/><span class="T1">-Enable Firewall</span></p><p class="P3"><span> Ubuntu’s Firewall is not enabled by default. You can enable it using ufw --enable or by </span><span> installing the GUI version of the firewall called “GUFW”</span><br/><span> </span><span> <span class="T2">sudo apt-get install gufw</span></span></p><p class="P3"><span> If you use the GUI version, just open it once installed and switch the slider to “on” or “active”.</span></p><p class="P3"><span> </span><span> <span class="T13">- Open terminal</span></span></p><p class="P3"><span class="T13">                - sudo apt-get install gufw<br/>                - Open gufw<br/>                - Move slider to “on” or “active”</span><br/><br/><span class="T1">-Compare users on PC</span><br/><span> <span class="T4">The readme will list users that belong on the PC and the privelidges they have. This includes         being an administrator or a standard user. Compare the users in the list (top right corner of         Ubuntu or start menu, User Accounts). If a user belongs but is in the wrong group, click the         lock button in the manager and type password to unlock and make changes. Also users are         found on the system that are not supposed to be on at all. Remove these, but remember to         check the forensics questions as I have had bad accounts be a question in prior years.</span></span></p><p class="P3"><span> </span><span> <span class="T14">- Start or top right<br/>                - User Accounts</span></span></p><p class="P7"><span> </span><span> - Find accounts that belong or do not belong</span></p><p class="P5"><span class="T14">                - Verify accounts that belong are in the right priviledge                                 group (administrator, standard)</span><br/><br/><span class="T1">-Disable guest account</span><br/><span> Guest account is enabled in most images. This is a hazard and has been scored in the past. This </span><span> is a side-account that can be used to access the system and is a vulnerability in the sense of </span><span> physical access. To disable, you must locate the configuration file for “lightdm”, the login </span><span> package for Ubuntu and change guest-account to false.</span><br/><span> </span><span> <span class="T13">- </span><span class="T15">Open terminal<br/>                - sudo gedit /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf<br/>                - Add the line “allow-guest=false” to the end of the file                         (no quotes)<br/>                - Save<br/>                - Restart lightdm (restart PC)</span></span></p><p class="P5"><span class="T3"><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/></span><span class="T3"><br/></span><br/><span class="T1">- Disable autologin</span><br/><span> You can do this via the User Accounts manager or in the previous lightdm.conf file. Change it to false in either way and you will no longer autologin as that user. In recent years CyberPatriot has not required this to be a problem for points as it adds convenience to competitors, so read the footnotes of the readme.</span><br/><span> <span class="T13">- </span><span class="T15">Open terminal<br/>        - sudo -H gedit /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf<br/>        - Remove autologin-user line(s)</span></span></p><p class="P10"><span> - Save</span></p><p class="P10"><span> - Restart lightdm if you want to be sure it registers the change</span></p><p class="P10"> </p><p class="P16"><span class="T1">- Change passwords</span><br/><span> To change passwords to an account, type sudo passwd &lt;username&gt; followed by the requested </span><span> passwords. It is good practice to change passwords, but it is a better idea to follow the practice </span><span> of changing cracklib rules and pam.d configuration then locking the account. This enforces the </span><span> new policies you add by making the users accounts locked, requiring a new password following </span><span> policies.<span class="Footnote_20_anchor" title="Footnote: https://s3.amazonaws.com/cpvii/Training+materials/Unit+Eight+-+Ubuntu+Security.pdf Slides 11 and 12"><a href="#ftn1" id="body_ftn1">1</a></span></span><br/><span> </span><span> <span class="T16">Changing passwords<br/></span><span class="T17">                - sudo passwd &lt;username&gt;<br/>                - Type new password twice</span><span class="T16"><br/></span><span class="T17">                </span><span class="T16">Changing policies and locking accounts<br/></span><span class="T17">                - Open terminal<br/>                - sudo gedit /etc/pam.d/</span><span class="T18">common-password<br/>                - Add “remember=5” to the end of line that has                                 “pam_unix.so” in it<br/>                - Add “minlen=8” to the end of line that has “pam_unix.so”                 in it</span></span></p><p class="P8"><span> </span><span> - Save</span><br/><span> </span><span> - sudo gedit /etc/login.defs</span><br/><span> </span><span> - Find in file (CTRL+F) “PASS_MAX_AGE”</span><br/><span> </span><span> - Change PASS_MAX_DAYS to 90</span><br/><span> </span><span> - Change PASS_MIN_DAYS to 10</span><br/><span> </span><span> - Change PASS_WARN_AGE to 7</span><br/><span> </span><span> - Save</span></p><p class="P20"> </p><p class="P20"><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/><br/></p><div class="P15"><span class="T33">- Setting account lockout policy</span><span class="T32"><br/>        You know when you mistype your password or pin for your phone and it locks you out for a set         amount of time? This discourages </span><span class="T30">brute force</span><span class="T32"> attacks. Brute force attacks are when a malicious         individual tries every possible combination of letters, numbers, and characters to try and get the         right password. This is inefficient but with some passwords it is a severe vulnerability. 1234         would be vulnerable as it is an incrementation of simple counting. Regardless, it is good         practice to lockout an account the same way your phone can to you.</span><span class="T31"><br/>                </span><span class="T19">- Open terminal<br/>                - sudo gedit /etc/pam.d/common-auth<br/>                - Add the following line to the end of the file<br/>                auth required pam_tally.so deny=5 onerr=fail                                 unlock_time=1800</span><span class="T19"><span class="Footnote_20_anchor" title="Footnote: https://s3.amazonaws.com/cpvii/Training+materials/Unit+Eight+-+Ubuntu+Security.pdf Slide 13"><a href="#ftn2" id="body_ftn2">2</a></span></span><span class="T19"><br/>                - Save</span><span class="T31"><br/></span></div><p class="P17"><span class="T1">- </span><span class="T10">Enable automatic updates</span><span class="T4"><br/>        </span><span class="T5">Automatic updates is a cornerstone of keeping a system secure. This ensures that when a fix is         released for a potentially devestating bug, the system is secured as soon as it is fixed.</span><span class="T4"><br/>                </span><span class="T21">- Top right cog<br/>                - System Settings<br/>                - Software and Updates<br/>                - Updates<br/>                - All checkboxes should be checked<br/>                - “Automatically check for updates” should be set to daily<br/>                - “When there are security updates” should be set to                         download         and install automatically<br/>                - “When there are other updates” should be set to display                 daily</span></p><p class="P21"> </p><p class="P18"><span class="T10">- Check for updates</span><span class="T4"><br/> </span><span class="T5">Checking for updates is an easy two lines of commands in terminal. This will refresh the cache, or stored information about what updates are available, and then pull them from repositories to install on your system.<br/>                </span><span class="T21">- sudo apt-get update<br/>                - sudo apt-get upgrade</span><span class="T5"><br/> You may be prompted to press “y” to continue in the process<br/><br/></span><span class="T11">- Disable SSH login as root</span><span class="T6"><br/> Most competition images (but not all) require the use of SSH from authorized users. This following action disables ssh login as root. This ensures if a user wants to do something as root from a remote location, they do it under their name or not at all.<br/>        </span><span class="T7">-</span><span class="T22"> sudo gedit /etc/ssh/ssh</span><span class="T23">d</span><span class="T22">.config<br/>        </span><span class="T28">-</span><span class="T22"> Change PermitRootLogin to no</span></p><p class="P9"> </p><p class="P19"><span class="T6">- </span><span class="T4">Make Firefox default browser &amp; update it</span></p><p class="P22"><span class="T35">                Updating Firefox </span><span class="T37">should</span><span class="T35"> but is not always done through apt-get update &amp; upgrade. Other methods include purging Firefox and reinstalling it, or using the built in installer. </span><span class="T36">Check the </span><span class="T36">current Firefox version here (https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/releases/)</span><span class="T20"><br/>        </span><span class="T29">To update through apt-get</span><span class="T20"><br/>                - sudo apt-get update<br/>                - sudo apt-get upgrade<br/>        </span><span class="T29">To update through uninstall and reinstall</span><span class="T20"><br/>                - sudo apt-get purge firefox<br/>                - sudo apt-get install firefox<br/>        </span><span class="T29">To update through built-in updater</span><span class="T20"><br/>                - Find the “about” menu, usually located on the three tabs in the top right corner of the browser bar<br/>                - </span><span class="T24">Q</span><span class="T20">uestion mark<br/>                - </span><span class="T24">About </span><span class="T20">Firefox</span></p><p class="P11"><span> </span><span> - Check version (It should check for updates here, if not </span><span> </span><span> and it is an outdated version, try updating through apt-get </span><span> </span><span> or uninstall/reinstall)</span></p><p class="P11"> </p><p class="P23"><span class="T20"><br/></span><span class="T36">- </span><span class="T38">Check dpkg for potentially malicious installed packages</span><span class="T24"><br/>        </span><span class="T36">dpkg is the packaging application for Debian based systems. Sifting through installed packages can find installed applications you might not find elsewhere.</span><span class="T24"><br/>                </span><span class="T25">-dpkg –</span><span class="T26">-</span><span class="T25">list</span></p><p class="P12"><span> </span><span> *You can also output the contents of this command to a file, for somewhat better reading by adding “&gt; results.txt” to the end of the command.</span></p><p class="P24"><span class="T25">                </span><span class="T26">Sorting through this list can be tedious, but searching for phrases like “crack” or “password” sometimes yields relevant results<br/>                -dpkg –</span><span class="T27">-</span><span class="T26">list | grep password</span><span class="T24"><br/>                </span></p><p class="P27"><span class="T8">- </span><span class="T4">Check group file for inconsistancies</span></p><p class="P27"><span class="T4">        </span><span class="T12">Checking the group file for inconsistancies can be fruitful. You can find users in a group that they do not belong. Careful, however, as there are several groups on systems by default for programs.</span></p><p class="P13"><span> </span><span> -cat /etc/group</span><br/><span> </span><span> *Like dpkg, you can output the command to a file for preference</span></p><p class="P13"> </p><p class="P14"><span class="T40">- Lock all user accounts setting password reset in motion<br/>        </span><span class="T41">Locking accounts acts as if the password reset countdown is set to 0, making the user set a new password on their first login</span><br/><span> passwd -l username</span></p><p class="P14"> </p><p class="P28"><span class="T40">- Removing a package</span></p><p class="P28"><span class="T40">        </span><span class="T42">sudo apt-get remove packagename</span><br/><span> If it is not removable via apt-get, use “dpkg –remove packagename” instead</span><br/><br/></p><p class="P25"><span class="footnodeNumber"><a class="Footnote_20_Symbol" id="ftn1" href="#body_ftn1">1</a></span><a href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cpvii/Training+materials/Unit+Eight+-+Ubuntu+Security.pdf" class="Internet_20_link">https://s3.amazonaws.com/cpvii/Training+materials/Unit+Eight+-+Ubuntu+Security.pdf</a> <span class="T34">Slides 11 and 12</span></p><p class="P26"><span class="footnodeNumber"><a class="Footnote_20_Symbol" id="ftn2" href="#body_ftn2">2</a></span><a href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cpvii/Training+materials/Unit+Eight+-+Ubuntu+Security.pdf" class="Internet_20_link">https://s3.amazonaws.com/cpvii/Training+materials/Unit+Eight+-+Ubuntu+Security.pdf</a> Slide 13</p></body></html>